Communication
Communication may be the most important word in this guide. It is the key to making your team operate effectively. Failure to communicate is the #1 cause of people problems. Communication ensures that a few critical things happen:  
Everyone is aligned on what the goals are
 Everyone is accountable for their responsibilities
 Everyone is transparent on the progress being made  
 Alignment, accountability and transparency are the building blocks of a successful team. They are must-haves to make everything else in this guide work. 

Let’s outline how communication actually happens on a high performing team. There are typically 2 processes for formal communication:  
Meetings
Written Updates  
Meetings have a bad reputation. They are often long and result in promises that never get completed. They also favor the loudest people in the room, who may not have the best ideas. The key to making meetings better is differentiating update meetings from decision meetings:
 Update meetings: people communicate status of an objective or task
 Decision meetings: relevant people discuss an issue and come to a decision  
 Your goal is to avoid update meetings. At update meetings, everyone talks and no one listens. The updates discussed are often only relevant to a small part of the team. This makes it difficult to pay attention and commit to taking action during the meeting. 

Updates should always be in writing, never in meetings. This will keep your team happier and save you a ton of time.  
Written Updates
To avoid the dreaded update meetings and ensure your people are accountable, written updates are an important process. It involves each person writing a brief summary at the end of the week outlining 4 items:
 Progress: what did I accomplish this week?
 Plans: What tasks am I doing next week?
 Problems: what is blocking progress?
 Other: what else should the team know?
The best way to do this is to have everyone fill out a form sent to their email. When they fill out the form, their update is emailed to the group. A typical approach is everyone submitting their update by end of the weekend. This way, everyone starts out on the same page. Here is an example of a weekly update for Crazy Cookies:  
Written updates are tremendously impactful for keeping everyone transparent on progress being made and accountable for delivering on their responsibilities.  
Now that status updates are being done in writing, there are a few meetings you should have that focus on discussion and decision making:  
Leadership Meeting
Your company’s leadership team should meet each week at the same time. This meeting includes a discussion about the following areas:
 Progress on achieving current quarterly objectives
 How the product is being received in the market
 How the most important customers are succeeding (or not) using the product
 How the team is performing and any people changes needed
 Financial position of the company and review of metrics
This meeting cannot devolve into status updates. Leaders need to remain focused and spent limited time together making decisions. The agenda should be created based on the concerns shared in the team’s written updates. Any important decisions should be noted in advance with an agenda so everyone has time to prepare thoughts.  

All Hands Meeting  
An All Hands meeting is just what it sounds like: getting all team members together. 

All Hands should be once per week, typically for 30 minutes. During the meeting, each functional leader should outline a summary of the objectives being worked on for the next week. This meeting is mostly for getting everyone excited and having an opportunity to address the full team. Any important information shared in the meeting should also be sent in writing as a follow up. 

Here is an example agenda for your All Hands meeting:  
Props (2 minutes): praise specific people for exceptional work that week
 Metrics (3 minutes): share metrics, such as customer growth
 Functions (20 minutes): each leader shares department summaries
 Strategy (5 minutes): CEO or COO shares strategy and the “why”  
 
 Keep your All Hands Meeting focused on objectives, not tasks. This is because tasks are too detailed and should instead be reserved for functional meetings.
Functional Meeting
Each functional group should have a weekly meeting. This is typically 30 minutes - 1 hour, and should be the same discussion and decision making format as the leadership meeting, avoiding status updates. You may review the previous week’s successes and share an outlook on the objectives and tasks for the current week. It is also an opportunity for individual teams (e.g. just the marketing team) to bond.  
